# 2017-09-09



Five members were present: Cian (@cianoc), Nathan (@snappizz), Brian (@brianlheim), Alberto (@adcxyz), and Jack (@jarmitage)

Recent work:

+ Brian: travisCI, unit testing, organizational documentation
+ Nathan: Debian packaging
+ James: interested in helping out (currently mainly a user)
+ Alberto: multi-client ID PR
+ Cian: fixing help files, potential Ableton Link support in 2-3 upcoming PRs

Topics of discussion:
multi-client ID PR:

- Alberto has raised new issues on GitHub to target specific design problems that arose in the PR
- He plans to rework #3106 (the current PR) into a few smaller PRs to avoid stagnation
- We talked about whether to put it in 3.9 or 3.10, and agreed that some of it should definitely go in 3.9 (see discussion below)

Suggestions from Cian:

- improve documentation for new supercollider users (coming from i.e. Ableton)
- add a UGen overview
- add a Quark overview

3.9 critical todos:

- block allocators portion of multi-client ID fix
- sendNotifyRequest extension of multi-client ID fix
- after that, release! OK to push a beta without full Linux packaging
- continue to work on Linux packaging, hoping to have a good release 

Adding UnitTest and test suite in common:

- Nathan pointed out there are issues with the UnitTest class that should be worked on
- We discussed (and tentatively agreed on) putting the test suite in the main class library
- This would be aided by adding a helpfile for unit tests documenting how to disable unit tests if desired

Thanks to all who attended! The next meeting has been set for September 16, 2017, at 16:00 UTC (12p EST).
