# 2017-12-30



Members Present:

Nathan, Patrick

Discussion Topics:

- 3.9.0-rc1 needs to be announced to Facebook...
- Currently waiting for users to test 3.9.0-rc1. If all goes well, we will make a decision on January 6th 
- Merged last remaining PR for 3.8.1.
- Fragmentation of SC community across different platforms.
- Would be a good idea to revive sc-dev and have more in-depth discussions on the list instead of on GitHub.
- We should announce major PRs to the list and regular updates about what we're working on.
- Decided against creating a 3.9.1 branch for simplicity. 3.9.1 patches can wait until the 3.9.0 release.
- Speed of release schedule can be improved by being less choosy about what needs to go into each release. If something holds back the release instead of pushing it forward, it needs to be delayed.
- Patrick redesigned the download page for the website to be up to date for Linux users.
- Nathan has been working on Debian packaging but has mostly been hitting dead ends.
- Bela port of SuperCollider has diverged considerably from core, we need to consider what to merge in.
- Future website redesign could probably be done as a quick weekend project.

2017-12-23
=========

Members Present:

Brian, Nathan, Patrick

Discussion Topics:

3.8.1:
- Merged #3348, will update changelog and release 3.8.1 soon.
- Because of #3348, will also have to add binaries to release.
- Nathan has created a draft release.
- Will have to be tagged on 3.8 branch since master already has 3.9 stuff in it.

3.9.0:
- Nathan will review and merge 3275
- And after that, release next instance because it closes all open 3.9 milestones
- #3266 - no longer milestoned as 3.9. Marked as "waiting for information" since cause is unclear
- Decided to call it a "release candidate" since all bugs from 3.9.0 beta are eliminated and signals that we are very close to release
- 3.9.0 release set for 1/1 unless major issues arise

3.9.1:
- Nathan wants to release 3.9.1 a month after 3.9.0. Ambitious but we are setting the bar low for the number of changes going in.

Wanted for 3.10:
- Nathan: new UGens (will work on as an independent project for school)
- Ableton Link synch (#3351)
- Brian: Update Boost, update Qt version
- Brian: Fix SerialPort on Windows

SuperColliderAU PR (#3350)
- SuperColliderAU reboot that runs from current develop.
- Agreed it would be better to move some of the project to a submodule

scsynth allocator PR (#3318)
- milestoned 3.10 at Brian's request

Patrick: safeguard for syntax errors in startup files.
- Right now it causes a mysterious error with no indication that it came from the startup file.
- Could easily be fixed for quality of life improvement

Thanks to all who attended! The next meeting has been set for December 30, 2017 at https://appear.in/sc-dev-meeting.

2017-12-16
=========

Members Present:

Brian, Patrick

Discussion Topics:

3.8.1:
- waiting on Nathan to release this small update
- purely meant for Arch Linux packaging
- just source code, no binaries

3.9.0:
- Alberto merged Brian's PR into the 3275 PR
- Patrick's PR cleaning up TestServer is ready to be merged
- Plan (tentative): merge 3275 within a week and release a second beta by Dec 23

Thanks to all who attended! The next meeting has been set for December 23, 2017 at https://appear.in/sc-dev-meeting.

2017-12-09
=========

Members Present:

Brian, Patrick, Nathan, David (Runge)

Discussion Topics:

3.8.0:
- possibly releasing 3.8.1 with a header include fix so that it builds with latest gcc toolchain
- see discussion in #3015/3029, would help with Arch Linux

Debian packaging: ongoing woes. Might contact umlaeute (Debian packager for pd)

PRs for 3.9:
- 3275 (lockClientIDWhileRunning):
  - Patrick has no issues with branch, has been using for awhile
  - Brian is ready to review
  - Julian should also review
- 3332:
  - Fixes an issue with the default server Volume synth

3.10:
- Brian wondered about starting to update libraries (like Boost) on develop branch in advance of 3.10
  - is OK, but should still focus efforts on 3.9.0/3.9.x

Thanks to all who attended! The next meeting has been set for December 16, 2017 at https://appear.in/sc-dev-meeting.

2017-12-02
=========

Members Present:

Brian, Patrick, Nathan, Josh P., Julian

Discussion Topics:

PRs for 3.9:
- 3317: merged, closing 3196
- 3318: maybe a bit of testing before merge
- 3275: still needs some work
- 3267: merged

Issues remaining for 3.9:
- 3266: still an open question
- 3176: Nathan can fix but is busy, might not go into second beta

3.9.1 issues and PRs:
- 3 good-to-go PRs already queued up
- 1390: "Error: ScIDE not connected": possibly not able to tackle in 3.9.1
- 3310: milestoned as 3.10

Nathan wants to work on new UGens for 3.10 

Josh: plan out things to unit test in 3.9.1, .2, .x based on issues we're running into now – e.g.: server booting process; synthdef loading

Future of Supernova and Scsynth – could one be merged into the other?

Library maintenance for 3.10: boost upgrade, Qt upgrade

Thanks to all who attended! The next meeting has been set for December 9, 2017, 21:00 UTC, at https://appear.in/sc-dev-meeting.

2017-11-18
=========

Members Present:

Brian, Patrick, Ben, James (McCartney)

Discussion Topics:

Brian: 
- planning to debug beta-related issues (#3196)

Patrick:
- wants to test Alberto’s PRs (#3275, #3286)

Ben:
- has been working on building SC on Windows to get familiar with the build process
- will start working on Supernova n_order issue (#3100)

James:
- just came to lurk

Issues before next beta release: with everyone's planned combined efforts, it sounds like we should be able to address most of the relevant issues in the next few weeks!

Symposium 2019 discussion on mailing list: yay

Thanks to all who attended! The next meeting has been set for November 25, 2017 at https://appear.in/sc-dev-meeting. We will try to keep the same time: 4 PM EST.

2017-11-04
=========

Members Present:

Brian, Nathan, Josh, Patrick

Discussion Topics:

Issues arising from AudioControl changes (#3266, #3196)
History cleanup PR – can be merged once done (#3267)
SCDoc UI - Nathan wants to make TOC popout only to smooth over bad behavior of dropdown TOC
Lock client ID while Running PR (#3275)

Priority: fix audio control issues for 3.9.0, possibly releasing a second beta

Dan Stowell’s blog post about Linux packaging
Should remove outdated PPA mention from website
Use Docker for testing
Pulseaudio/Jack woes
Would like to add documentation on buffer allocators

3.9.1:
Will be mainly our testing ground for shorter release cycle.
Nathan wants to fix two issues (auto-indent in IDE, default font on macOS)

Thanks to all who attended! The next meeting has been set for November 11, 2017, time TBD.
