# 2017-06-10



Three members were present: Brian (@brianlheim), Nathan (@snappizz), and Julian (@telephon).

Topics of discussion were:

- Till's recent email to the dev list, sc3-plugins and maintenance of SC's "satellite" projects
- some close-to-being-merged PRs: we talked about what was needed to merge
- method table: Brian agreed to test the performance of the language (both memory and speed) with a high number of methods defined, to either put to rest or confirm old rumors
- PR backlog: Julian agreed to move a number of his inactive PRs to the PR backlog (https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/projects/7).

Thanks to all who attended!
