# 2018-08-05



Members present: Brian, James Harkins, Josh, Nathan, Patrick, Scott Carver

- Status of the 3.10 release:
  - Linux help browser shortcuts fixed
  - Help browser shortcut almost fixed
  - SerialPort almost done
  - FileDialog hangup and SCIDE look and feel still not started
- Josh have been working on package manager for plugins
- James is working on Score/NRT helpfile improvements
- Brian suggested that we release beta this week, documenting the 2 remaining issues
- Issue + PR templates: good idea, a bit too long right now
- File object, File APIs
- Time for a new logo?
- Resurrecting the UI refresh branch
- Design documents as a method for preventing pull requests that attract huge amounts of nitpicky comments
- Nathan brought up a safe output clipping proposal
- Patrick is having a bizarre issue with the help browser

This week:
- Merge SerialPort and the Cmd+Enter help browser
- Release beta with "known issues list"
- Josh will take initiative on logo redesign
- Nathan will work on SCIDE
- Scott will work on FileDialog
- Put out a user survey
