# 2020-03-15



Members present: Brian H, Josh P, James S, Tejaswi P, Nathan H, Marcin P, Julian R

3.11.1: discussed PRs and release date
- Make an RC by April 15, release by April 30
- #4544 is priority for 3.11.1 or 3.11.2
- #4826 also recommended
- Marcin recommended #4599, we agreed it should be included
- Julian recommended #4779, we agreed it should be included
- Brian recommended all "Cherry-pick to 3.11" PRs

3.12.0: discussed release date
- Josh suggested 6 months from 3.11.0 release. Discussed impact of COVID-19 outbreak and associated instability on development
- Nathan recommended focusing on a single project for next release

Julian brought up his concept for an "AbstractObject"/"Neutral" RFC
- discussed design and possible implementation

Discussed open and future RFCs

Discussed deprecation policy
