# 2020-02-09



Members present: Brian H, Josh P, James S, Tejaswi P, Patrick D

SC symposium - discussed who is going and informal travel plans

GSOC - weren't able to find a second mentor, won't be doing it this year

General progress update
- Brian - busy in other projects lately, planning to get back to reviews this week
- Josh - busy in other projects lately, suggested releasing 3.11 beta soon
- Patrick - worked on updating pull requests -- wants to merge #3814, #4761
- James - busy with other projects lately, planning to review some PRs
- Tejaswi - just changed build environments, interested in reviewing PRs, added to Reviewers GitHub team

3.11 beta release - planned for Feb 16 - Josh will handle

Brian suggested doing calls every other weekend
- Josh, Patrick agreed that would be good
- James and Josh suggested doing check-ins via another medium instead of the meetings when we don't have them

Discussed moderation of the scsynth.org forum - James S said he would be interested in helping moderate

Discussed #4713 and refactoring scdoc
