# 2020-01-19



Members Present: Brian H, James P, Marcin, Tejaswi, Patrick D, Nathan H

Discussed procedure around releases and timeline for 3.11 release.
No decisions made as Nathan wasn't present yet.

Discussed some open PRs (#4599, #4704) and review process

Patrick brough up QPM PR #10 for attention

Patrick reported that he's making progress running tests in CI, ready to make a PR that runs tests in CI on Linux

Marcin asked for help with PR #4583, Brian said he would assist
