# 2020-10-04


Present: Marcin, Brian, James S, Gianluca
​
* General greenfield question: what might a version 4 look like?
    * We release breaking changes every minor release - it doesn't follow semantic verisoning, should we already be on version 4 etc.?
    * When we're next able to discuss big things, this would be on the list.
​
* Backwards compat and deprecations
    * A very positive feature
    * However, potentially leads to stagnation and unclear/confusing features
    * Concerns about removing deprecations: in particular `asInt`.
​
* Xcode 11 build issues
    * Marcin + Brian tried to diagnose a segfault with a non-legacy xcode11 build, still investigating
​
* 3.11.2
    * Lots of CI work to figure out first, including the Xcode 11 things
​
* Discussion on reviewing existing PRs
​
However people are able to contribute to the project, in whatever capacity they are able to, is massively appreciated. 
We're all very grateful for any work people are doing towards the project, particularly during these times.
​
* Can we do pair-programming and/or group programming sessions? Paired reviews? With the goal of tackling larger/more complex things and sharing workload as well as knowledge and experiences about various sections/aspects of the project.
​
* Discussion around signing and notarisation
    * Questions about how CMake handles signing
​
​
## Actions

* Marcin and Brian will continue to work together on the Xcode 11 issues
* Try to plan paired/group reviews for next week
