# 2021-06-13


JamesS, Olga, Daniel, Marcin, Josh, Iannis

Introductions
We discuss 3.12 release - RC week of June 14

**Remaining PRs: **
Inclusive language #5470
Discussion on #5470
Choosing alternative “new” method name to re-route non-deprecated but classes that we suggest you avoid.

Possibly: supernova bind interface #5474
Discussion on #5474
Looks good, Josh will check

Iannis starts discussion on modularizing sc code

James mentions his work on CMake

Iannis inquires on possibility of interfacing SC / running SC on GPU in the context of AI
https://www.rncm.ac.uk/research/research-centres-rncm/prism/prism-events/future-music-3-16-17-june-2021/unsupervised/

Olga shares ideas about shared memory interface improvements
