# 2022-05-22



Present: James S, Josh P, Marcin P

Discussion on repository permission

There are many users who are not active but have admin accessâ€¦ Decided to table this until a later time.

Discussion on PRs that we would like for 3.13:

https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/pull/5610

Discussion on plugin API changes   
Proposal to make a test that checks for API breakages and runs in the CI

Discussion on the libsndfile PR   
https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/pull/5776

