# 2023-12-17



People in meeting: Dennis, Michael W, Eduard F, Mike M, Marcin P, Christof R.

## PRs to discuss


* [Qt5 -> Qt6 transition](https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/issues/5169)
    * 2 Steps 
* [wiki migration](https://github.com/mtmccrea/supercollider/wiki)
    * The current wiki will be replaced/updated by Mike during the holidays
* clang-format update
    * tag this commit
    * contact Moss?
    * pre-commit additional PR
* SC domain
    * Contact Josh/James about 
* [Updating plugin interface](https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/issues/6102) / [Moving Plugin Interface C++ -> C](https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/issues/6145), making it extendable etc
* WebAssembly - discussion on maintainability etc

## Meta topics

Where to focus our limited resources; how to prioritize what to work on?

## Larger issues to tackle
for the longevity of the project

- lang
    - garbage collerctor bugs...
- server
    - plugin interface updates
    - [wasm](https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/pull/5571)?
- IDE
- other aspects
    - [Qt6 update](https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/tree/topic/qt6-07)
    - package manager with binaries (`Quarks2` etc)
- dev
    - provide a list of "who-to-contact" for what regarding develoment on the forum/github (e.g. having a PR for scsynth, who can I contact to obtain a final(?) word on a problem)


