# 2023-09-24



8 People showed up! :+1: 

In the meeting: MarcinP, DennisS, MaximilianR, EduardF, MichaelW, ThalesR, MikeM, JamesS

## Update by sclang dev group

* Modularization
* Quark/package manager System
* Pitch class representation

## Meta discussion about developer groups

Discussion about the communication about the publication about events within the forum - maybe it needs some improvement in regards of people who want to be notified.

There are 3 threads:

* https://scsynth.org/t/scsynth-plugins-supernova-developer-group/7978?u=mike
* https://scsynth.org/t/class-library-developer-group/7974?u=mike
* https://scsynth.org/t/developer-meeting-polls/234

Subscribe to the the [Developer meeting polls thread](https://scsynth.org/t/developer-meeting-polls/234) to keep track of future meetings and their planning.
Use the bell icon to receive updates via Mail.

JamesS: One proposal / original idea of the splitting of the dev groups: Should the *sub-groups* still meet within the *main*-dev meeting and go into break-out rooms, so an communication between the teams can established, but also a focussed discussion would be possible.
Yet, additional meetings within the team is still encouraged.
One idea of sub-groups is/was to give the authority about decissions to a group of people which can be adressed.

=> General meeting with breakout rooms

Related discussion on code of conduct and safety for participants.

Maybe founding a SC-Mod/Awarness team to have the possibility to adress Code of Conduct violations and try to resolve the issue.
The resolution could/should be handled first privately via a PM.

One way to resolve this could be a sticky post which covers a small introduction and the "who-is-who" within the community like release-manager, moderators.

---

How should a *bespoke* person for groups emerge? Naturally or "enforce" it?

## Questions

Should focus group happen within the "core"-meetings or should they have meetings on their own?

Core meetings focus on meta-discussion (but still PR discussion possible).

## Actions

* Create stickies on scsynth.org
    * Introduction to the forum
        * link to the dev-threads
        * explain procedure about meetings
        * state moderators and release-managers
        * state actions for violation of Code of Conduct)
        * Add links to other ways of communication like Telegram group, Matrix room
    * All meetings are anounced unified in a single thread (sticky)
    * Polls are announcemed in the poll thread (make sticky also)
* Communicate on the class library and synth focus group that the meetings will be announcement on the main poll/announcement threads
    * Marcin will make a poll for the class lib meeting next week
* James will look into moderating interactions in the SC community


## Discussed PRs
 * https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/pull/6068 - needs more eyes
 * https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/pull/6073
 * https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/pull/5974 / https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/issues/5973
 * https://github.com/supercollider/qpm/pull/14 => Will be archived by Marcin with a small note on why at the top of the `README`


2023-08-06 (sclang