# 2017-10-28



Members present: Brian, Julian, Nathan, and Patrick

We are moving the next meeting to 6pm eastern.

We are just about to announce the 3.9 beta, and we're currently waiting to test the windows builds.

Development cycle for 3.9.x releases will tighten considerably -- maybe about two months between each one, or about 20 pull requests. We are also aiming for a fairly short 3.10, something around six months.

To help motivate development progress, each patch release has one required major bugfix. For 3.9.1, we should fix two longstanding IDE problems: auto-indent and the default font on macOS.

Some other good issues that we should turn our attention to, but arent required for 3.9.1: Integer:forBy bug and CPU hog with Qt-less sclang. "Edit on github" feature is almost done. Brian is also interested in fixing a lot of our development infrastructure such as the tests system.

Release of stable version is done by merging 3.9 branch into develop, and then 3.9 into master.

We are changing our approach to milestones. 3.9, 3.9.1, and 3.10 milestones are all strict -- if an issue or PR is categorized under them, those issues MUST be resolved before release. 3.9.x milestone means issues that aren't required, but it would be nice if we could fix them in a patch release soon. Issues can be moved from 3.9.x to 3.9.1 if it is decided that it's practical to complete them in time for release.

2017-09-30
=========

Members Present:

- Brian:
- Nathan
- Patrick

Discussion Topics:

- Patrick’s PRs to the supercollider.github.io site and his plans for future work on the site
- The last few things that are ready to be done before 3.9 release (getting very close)
- Issue https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/issues/3211
- git flow maintenance of the release and develop branches
