# 2017-05-27



5 people were present: Brian, Alberto, Nathan, Julian, and Patrick.

- Brian Heim has been working on his big UTF-8 pull request which fixes
the Windows help file issue.
- Alberto de Campo has a topic branch for multiclients to improve node
and buffer allocation, and has a PR for OSX standalones.
- Nathan Ho has been working on UGen regression tests, and small help
files and class library issues.
- Julian Rohrhuber worked on File.read* methods, Rest/Operand reform,
and a quark for a Neutral object that records every message sent to it.
- Patrick Dupuis has been investigating the Ubuntu keyboard shortcut
issue and has been working on help file, class library, and
Linux-related issues.

Topics:

- Old standalone instructions are gone.
- A PR can be merged when it presents an improvement and doesn't
introduce new bugs.
- 3.9.x releases and eventual adoption of git-flow
- SCDoc, barriers for new helpfile contributors, features we can add to
the help files to make it easier to contribute
- Number of PRs open, speed of merge, filing PRs with incomplete work
