# 2017-03-04



What we did:

- Tom Murphy did nothing.
- Brian Heim has been working on regression tests for sclang, which
should be ready to merge within a few days. He has a working proof of
concept using the recent nested multiline comment fix.
- Rainer Schütz is working on making SC buildable on VS 2015. The
difficult parts are QtWebKit and supernova.
- Nathan Ho worked on a bunch of small things as usual, FINALLY fixed
the Linux tooltip issue with Rainer, and has made some progress on UGen
regression tests.
- Patrick Dupuis is looking into HID issues on Fedora Linux (the help
file contains an Ubuntu-specific udev rule).

Topics:

- appear.in supports stickers, as we discovered this meeting
- Cross-platform compatibility of the older Python sclang tests.
- April 1 was a bit optimistic for 3.9 (we only have 2 out of 8 major
issues outlined in January), but we can still try to push to finish some
important issues.
- Issues with packaging. Looked at openbuildservice.org and discussed
Travis CI, AWS, and Linux PPAs. We don't really have a documented
release process right now.
- Our thoughts on the recent mailing list discussion:
   - It's okay if we use a mailing list even if they're out of vogue
   - It's *not* okay that people are sending messages to the list through
Nabble and we can't do anything about their messages ending up in limbo
   - We should replace Nabble, not the list
- Concerns over scvim development rate
- Unanimous support for deprecating OSC(path/r)esponder[Node]
- Missing sclang features: .asStringPrec with trailing zeros (see
http://new-supercollider-mailing-lists-forums-use-these.2681727.n2.nabble.com/asStringPrec-td5826156.html),
converting a hex string to an integer, binomial coefficient
- SC decision-making processes, then and now. Conference calls vs GitHub
vs sc-users vs sc-dev for discussions.
- Extension of this discussion:
http://new-supercollider-mailing-lists-forums-use-these.2681727.n2.nabble.com/Github-in-web-editing-disable-td7630916.html
