# 2019-01-20



Members present: Brian, Patrick, Nathan

- Nathan fixed the old editor themes issue
- Nathan has been tackling the WebSocket problems in SCIDE
- Brian has been working on whitespace formatting
- Brian documented how to use `git rebase` in CONTRIBUTING.md to help contributors' difficulties with it
- Brian fixed string/symbol lexing errors
- Nathan has been working on automated tarball uploads, optimized a new WIP compressor
- Patrick investigated Platform:helpDir
- Patrick fixed a bug in ServerOptions
- We released the user survey and spent like an hour watching the first 20 results roll in like we're watching ESPN
