# 2019-12-08



Members Present: Brian Heim, Carlo Capocasa, Chad Cassady, James Surgenor, Josh Parmenter, Josiah Oberholtzer, Marcin Paczkowski, Nathan Ho, Patrick Dupuis, Tejaswi Prakash

Release status:
- 3.10.4: Beta release immediately.
- 3.10.5: Address three issues below.
- 3.11.0:
  - Nathan is open to resuming release manager.
  - Quality assurance for LinkClock.
  - Scott Carver's SynthDef spec PR #3814.

Release board issues (now postponed to 3.10.5):
- Issue #4214 (IDE stuck at "Sending Request"): James believes this is resolved, but needs more testing.
  - Nathan will test and look at it
  - James will write up an explanation of why this is happening and why this fixes it
- Issue #4368 (Windows Defender delays scsynth boot): not much new information
- Issue #3132 (CommonTests quark -> local UnitTests): considered ongoing, not important for 3.10.4

Other topics:
- Suggestion for high priority after the 3.10.4 release: getting the number of open PRs to 10 or fewer
  - The number of open PRs has been overwhelming since the code reformat
  - Brian's advice for reviewers: ask for information immediately whenever it is needed
  - Nathan suggested setting aside a weekend "review-a-thon" for tackling pull requests
- The Release Board has been really helpful in prioritizing the set of issues
- RFC #1 (platform support guarantees): waiting on Brian
- RFC #4 (Rest): ping James H & Julian on status of discussion
- RFC #7 (binaries in Quarks): some discussion summarized in the actual RFC thread
- RFC #5 (/s_query): awaiting another round of feedback
  - Opens up some wider discussions about how /g_queryTree is broken/weirdly designed
- Comment on the general RFC process: it's a bit difficult to see current status of RFC
- A new page for "Pre-RFCs"
  - Cannibalize the old "Long-term, large-scape projects" board into a wiki page

Action items:
- Fix a 3.10/develop merge conflict in TestUnitTest.sc.
- Create a "Pre-RFC" page.
- Release 3.10.4 beta immediately.
