# 2019-08-04



Members Present: Brian Heim, Geoffroy Montel, Iannis Zannos, James Surgenor, Luke Nihlen, Marcin Pączkowski, Nathan Ho, Patrick Dupuis, Tejaswi Prakash

The Backlog Board is hereby renamed to the Future Release Board (but still usually referred to as the backlog).

Some discussions on the structure and process:

- We discussed including the backlog *in* the Release Board, but decided against since the purpose is to create focus and avoid distraction. 
- The decision process for adding, removing, and prioritizing items (especially across different communication channels) is not very clear due to the SC community's lack of a clearly defined leadership model.
- By a quick straw poll, we decided that it's easier if the Release Board has issues in "To Do" but are replaced with PRs as soon as a PR exists.
- The release manager has to leave the process open and democratic but is responsible for watching the process and making the tougher decisions that nobody else wants to make.

3.10.3 Release Board updates:

- macOS code signing: Josh (not present) made good progress in the past few days, not far off.
- WebSocket port selection: Nathan handed it off to Brian yesterday. Essentially done, just needs a final review and merge.
- windows audio devices: Very close, some testing from Windows users is wanted.
- network sockets: Luke gave some feedback, awaiting Nathan.
- Cmd+Q: Luke reviewed. Tested on macOS and Windows, but not Linux.
- Optional QtWebEngine: DONE!

Out-of-board updates:

- Iannis received reviews on NotificationCenter help file updates and will be responding to them.
- James looked into finding the best way to properly detect and set the SSE instruction set in compiling.
- Marcin brought up matching partial device names in Windows.

New items added to backlog:

- LinkClock quantum handling and sync https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/pull/4484
- supernova lockup on dsp helper thread https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/issues/3461
- supernova sound input failure https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/issues/4029
- UnitTests do not run on CI https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/issues/3132
