# 2019-02-03



Members Present:

Nathan, Brian, Patrick

Discussion Topics:
- 3.10.2
    - almost ready to release, just need to merge Brian's PR
    - plan: do rc ASAP, release 3.10.2 on Friday if no major issues
        - in the past, rcs have been useful, for example for 3.10.1 we got 3 issues in the first few days
- 3.10.3 release date set for 2 weeks after 3.10.2
- talked about organizing project documentation
    - how to balance things between wiki & CONTRIBUTING.md/DEVELOPING.md?
- Nathan: seems like SC doesn't use heavy vectorization for UGens with MSVC
    - because nova-simd doesn't make the correct check under MSVC
- survey: send out another reminder today, close survey in a week
    - publish a report & aggregated results at the same time (ideally, at most a week after close)
- git workflow: how to manage PRs where original author doesn't have much time to make changes
    - everyone is more or less in favor of helping each other out
- 25th-anniversary edition of SuperCollider should be released as a limited edition CD box set
