# 2019-08-18



Members present: Brian H, Nathan H, Marcin P, Patrick D, James S

SC 3.10.3-rc1 is out!

Todo issues for 3.10.3-rc2:
- https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/pull/4511 ("Plotter: update default colors to valid colors."), which fixes a regression introduced in an earlier 3.10 release.
- Code signing - still in progress
    - Josh P has successfully codesigned the 3.10.3-rc1 app package, but an issue with codesigning server plugins also needs discussion and investigation

Nathan suggested we should continue with the 3.10 release series in 3.10.4: "I want there to be a stable version of 3.10 that people can use for a long time"

Nathan suggested that since we were able to solve all 6 items on the release board relatively quickly for 3.10.3, we should shoot for 6 for the 3.10.4 release.

We spent some time discussing which items should be in the 3.10.4, 3.11, and Future Release boards.

Marcin will review and rework his PRs in a few weeks when he is done traveling.

Brian brought up the PRs opened by Christof R for his VSTPlugin UGen (#4499, #4379) and wants to prioritize them. Some concerns were raised about #4499, mainly about maintainability. Patrick was concerned that we should not be too quick to introduce a feature that may become broken due to project decay in the future. We agreed to continue discussing it, but not unduly delay the PR since it is a project we want to support.

Nathan suggested that after the 3.10.3 release we could propose an RfC process. His initial concern is that many RfCs will be submitted at once and it will be overwhelming to prioritize and discuss them. We discussed some ideas: "first come first served", cap on active number of RfCs, use "active" and "final review" states to indicate which RfCs are currently prioritized. We agreed post-3.10.3-release would be a good time for Nathan to propose it.

James S talked a little bit about his SuperDiffuse project.
