# 2023-10-01

=
"Class library" group meeting

In the meeting: James S, Marcin P, Simon D, Michael W, PyoungRyang K

- discussion on rebranding the developer tracks as proposed by Mike McCrea 
  - too soon to change the name
  - table the discussion until another meeting
- From the previous meeting:
  - idea of trimming down class library
  - would need package management system
    - various proposals floated before
      - sharing the whole class library
      - search paths
    - new package management system
  - musical notation
- Discussion on package management
  - two separate features:
    - package managemen
    - session management
  - the packer manager needs to provide:
    - conflict resolution
    - binary files
    - searchability
      - classes
      - help files
    - versioning!
      - SC compatibility
      - OS compatibility
    - additive configuration - installing requested extensions on top of "home" extensions (e.g. for local hardware etc)
	- need to solve the patch management between sclang and scsynth
  - the session manager needs to provide:
    - transferring project to another machine
    - switching extension sets (overlap with package manager?)
    - need a format to combine sc code and requirements
    - "lock" file that lists extensions
    - discussion on how to store that data
      - change .scd format to include metadata
      - or use multiple files in a particular directory structure
    - save/recall the current state of the project
  - discussion on existing solutions: deken
  - security concerns of a possible solution
  - what are the bedrock improvements
  - note Josh's the idea of using quarks as a surrogate for the project
  - Class library not booting when conflicts are countered - could this be addressed regardless of the package manager solution? e.g. "safe mode" boot with basic class library if that happens
  - Order of actions: discuss **search paths \> package manager \> session manager**
    - ref. Nathan's wiki page https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/wiki/Path-searching
- Discussion on Piping functions
- Note names
  - discussion on Lilypond syntax not applicable
  - PyoungRyang describes their system that also generates MusicXML: https://github.com/prko/Notator
  - note name shouldn't just be a map to the midi note name

