# 2023-10-08

In the meeting: Simon, Marcin P, Michael W, James S, Mike M

- macOS build issues - discussing `libsndfile` from homebrew; Marcin will investigate
- Discussion on qt6 port and webengine hurdle; last work of was done [here](https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/commit/80b1943da33b4b3603b9507de461319ca71c3d65#diff-3e2afc8e64bf52caa22a03d0706afba9e36191a4d9734d77ea60ff2c65b62385R51)
- Discussion on pushing the project forward:
  - desire to **create explicit policies for breaking changes** that can't be easily deprecated (like fixing long-standing DSP bugs)
  - consideration on backwards compatibility when discussion changes
  - can we guarantee to the users:
    - your code should work X years down the line
    - SC works on the newest machines
  - need to balance between SC being a lively tool vs a museum for old pieces
We might need to be more careful on how we deprecate things; but we shouldn't hesitate to deprecate
Automated tooling

## Discussed PRs

- [changing the posting format PR](https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/pull/6106)
  - Probably this is a good change, in accordance  with our [code style guide](https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/wiki/Code-style-guidelines#rule-add-spaces-within-curly-brackets--but-not-parentheses--square-brackets--or-argument-lists-)
    - Marcin will review
       - Make a point about storeOn being a breaking change, but probably okay
       - Mention in the review that this should be considered for `Event` and other classes; reference code formatting
- [Multiple config files](https://github.com/supercollider/supercollider/pull/6068)
  - Boost testing - James would prefer to use a different test framework
    - Adding test framework should become a separate PR
  - Renaming the `sclang` folder - a separate PR
  - Whith the above changes in place, create and review just the configuration file loading change

TODOs and other matters:
- Marcin: check macOS CI building
- The need for a roadmap for bigger tasks like Qt5 -> Qt6
- The need to keep discussions on few features etc. on track, so that we can move forward
- Future on GUI framework and Qt6 licensing
- Marcin: make a clean Qt6 branch
- Consider the need to redo our CMake files
